Start off as an atom.

clicker to grow atom into a group of atoms.

upgrade to start creating molecules.

upgrade to create water H2O, salt NaCl.

upgrades to create amino acids (9 Atoms), proteins (30 amino acids), Carbohydrates (24 Atoms).

Cytoplasm
a jelly-like fluid (5 Salt and 20 water)

Plasma membrane (10 Proteins 10 Molecules)
The plasma membrane is the outer lining of the cell. 
It separates the cell from its environment and allows materials to enter and leave the cell.

Cytoskeleton (20 Proteins)
a network of long fibers that make up the cell's structural framework. 
The cytoskeleton has several critical functions, including determining cell shape, participating in cell division, 
and allowing cells to move. 

Ribosomes (20 Proteins 10 Amino Acids)
Ribosomes are organelles that process the cell's genetic instructions to create proteins. 
These organelles can float freely in the cytoplasm or be connected to the endoplasmic reticulum (see above).

Branch!!!!!!

A
Nucleus (20 DNA 20 Proteins) (Eukaryota)
The nucleus serves as the cell's command center, sending directions to the cell to grow, mature, divide, or die. 
It also houses DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), the cell's hereditary material.

Mitochondria (30 Proteins) (Eukaryota) (Start Creating Proteins)
complex organelles that convert energy from food into a form that the cell can use. 
They have their own genetic material, separate from the DNA in the nucleus, and can make copies of themselves.


B
Nucleoid (20 DNA 20 Proteins) (Bacteria and Archaea) (Start Creating Proteins)
The nucleus serves as the cell's command center, sending directions to the cell to grow, mature, divide, or die. 
It also houses DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), the cell's hereditary material.

Branch!!!!!!

A
Peptidoglycans in the Cell wall (Bacteria)
For example, all bacteria contain peptidoglycans (a molecule composed of both protein and sugar rings) in their 
cell walls. However, archaea do not have this compound in their cell walls.

B
no peptidoglycans in the Cell wall (Archaea)



https://www.ducksters.com/science/biology/protists.php

Among the eukaryotes, some protists, and all fungi and plants, have cell walls. Cell walls are not 
identical in these organisms, however. In fungi, the cell wall contains a polysaccharide called chitin. 
Plant cells, in contrast, have no chitin; their cell walls are composed exclusively of the polysaccharide 
cellulose.

Microscopic, single-celled bacteria are Earth's simplest life forms. They are also some of Earth's 
most successful organisms. Different types of bacteria have adaptations that allow them to live in 
just about any environment. They fill our oceans and rivers, our soil, and even the insides of our 
bodies. In fact, the total mass of bacteria on our planet is much greater than the collective mass 
of all of Earth's animals.

Archaea look a lot like bacteria: they are tiny, single-celled, and relatively simple. But they are 
actually more closely related to eukaryotes, and they have some unique characteristics that put them 
in a category of their own. For example, archaea have a more stable membrane chemistry than bacteria 
and eukaryotes have, which may make them better able to survive in extreme environments. However, archaea 
aren't restricted to extreme environments; they live in most of the same places as bacteria.

Eukaryotes have larger, more-complex cells than bacteria or archaea. This category includes microscopic, 
single-celled organisms like protists and yeast, and also multi-cellular organisms like plants and 
animals. Eukaryotes that live in extreme environments often depend on bacteria and archaea for food, 
much like we depend on plants and plant-eaters for our energy needs.